alright so in the last video we study
projections and shells so just note that
the game projection is very easy and go
into any of you and I go to create
planar map there's my projection and
this thing I did not show you what this
thing does if I click and drag down or
up you're going to find that in the UV
texture editor space all this is doing
is a glorified scale okay you can see is
if I get small all this is doing is
making this really big it's important to
note that professionally we stay within
this box okay so if it lives in the box
it's good to go it's good to port in any
other program but we don't go outside at
this little area right here well the
complexity starts when you get a shape
that is somewhat complex let's see i'm
just going to add some to this character
we're going to make a two second body
and to second a couple arms here
okay so there we go now what happened
well the shape doesn't match anymore so
that's step one does the shape match no
well what happens I can go in here and
say maybe projective camera and project
it well now it represents a shape but
what happens well there's distortion
even if i took the shell let's take the
shell and cut it
using the cut command here and then take
a UV using the UV shell tool clicking
off the drag the second rule besides
like staying in the square is we can't
have any overlapping movies and clearly
you know these UV these faces right here
if I click on that you see that they're
not here very much you know I mean
because what happens is they're not
represented at all and if they are
they're laying flat here and I could
never put any texture in it see just
like this I can't put any texture in
this area because there's nowhere to put
the texture at so this leads to the
second most useful tool here and that is
the unfold command so what I'm going to
do is click double click the line here
and we're going to say unfold UVs and
they're like wow that was horrible okay
well there's a reason for that and let
me show you that reason notice I when I
do this both of them squishes down okay
so in order to counteract this if I go
to the unfold command and say pin
unselected you vs
close that out let's go to UV then
unfold ok notice of something one got
bloated out the other one got
introverted in well that's a very easy
explanation for this this is the
positive and this is the negative shell
okay undo to counteract that what I
usually do is take this shell and I flip
it and then if I unfold it
grabbing first the edge then to UV I can
unfold it and now this time it blowed it
out well here's the problem there's a
lot of problems here you know I mean
because it's like problem after problem
after problem so the problem now occurs
is its unfolded but these are still
stacked up on top of each other so I
have to go in to each and every UV and W
on the keyboard to move it now they're
they're not overlapping but I still get
areas of overlapping and I have to sit
here all day long and try to move and
manipulate these so they don't overlap
and also so they're uniformed so that's
very important to keep uniformity within
your texture in other words this one is
now sort of a square this one is nothing
sort of that so in this area I would
have a hard time trying to get texture
in here so in the next video I'm going
to introduce you to a program and I'm
going to get you used to using that
program and it's called blender it will
save you decades absolutely decades
doing v's the reason i don't use maya is
because it doesn't automatically unfold
the item like blender does so in the
next video we're going to be looking at
blender and blender is free of course so
everybody can download blender and play
along all right maybe in the next video